We've talked a lot about a block joining the blockchain.
But, we haven't really mentioned how this happens.
It starts by the network agreeing on which transactions are valid.
This is done using something known as consensus.
Consensus is the name for a group of algorithms
we can use to create a voting process for the network.
This voting process helps make decisions about information on the blockchain.
In this video, we'll look further into consensus starting with the problem that
lies at the core of consensus known as the Byzantine Generals Problem.
Let's take a moment and go on a journey back to
the early 100s during the rule of the Byzantine Empire in the middle of a war.
Stay with me on this.
In the end, the relation to the blockchain will be very clear.
Nine generals, each commanding a portion of
the Byzantine army encircle a city and they need to form a plan to attack it.
The generals must only decide,
whether to attack or retreat.
The caveat is that either all nine must agree
to attack or all nine must agree to retreat.
If only a portion attack while the others hold back,
then they'll be overwhelmed and lose.
In addition, there are some other complications.
Of the nine generals,
there could be some who were traitors.
They may try to disrupt the group vote.
For example, if four of the nine support an attack,
and another for support a retreat,
the final general could have bad intent and mess the whole thing up.
To do this, they could send a vote to retreat to those in favor
of retreating and a vote to attack to the four who want to attack.
The generals are physically separated,
and need to send their votes using messengers.
These messengers could potentially be captured along the way,
fail to deliver votes,
or could create false votes.
What we just went over is referred to in
computer science as the Byzantine Generals Problem.
The problem is an analogy for the blockchain network.
Replace generals with nodes,
and instead of war,
think about our blockchain network.
The same ideas apply in both situations.
In a distributed system,
you need a way to ensure trust between
users when they don't have any way to communicate effectively.
The solution helps us understand a way to achieve
consensus between users who cannot communicate effectively,
and have no way to trust each other.
It's pretty neat to realize this problem of establishing trust
and a distributed network has gone on for ages.
Bitcoin originally proposed a solution to this problem using a proof-of-work algorithm.
It's a way to achieve consensus without a central authority,
and is what allows Bitcoin to solve the double-spending problem.
We'll go over the details of this proof-of-work algorithm next.